# Stable Diffusion

|              名称              | 简介                                                           |         语言         | github| 官网  | 更新      | star  |
|:----------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------:|:-----|:----|:--------|:------|
|  Stable Diffusion Version 2  | High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models |       Python       |https://github.com/Stability-AI/stablediffusion||         |       |
|   Stable Diffusion web UI    | Stable Diffusion web UI                                      | Python, JavaScript |https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui|| 2023-07 | 97.9k |
|Dreambooth on Stable Diffusion| Implementation of Dreambooth with Stable Diffusion           |  Python, Jupyter   |https://github.com/XavierXiao/Dreambooth-Stable-Diffusion|| 2022-07 | 6.9k  |
|automatic| SD.Next: Advanced Implementation of Stable Diffusion |  Python, Jupyter   |https://github.com/vladmandic/automatic|| 2022-08 | 3.3k  |
|InvokeAI| Professional Creative Tools for Stable Diffusion, Custom-Trained Models, and more.|  Python, Jupyter   |https://github.com/invoke-ai/InvokeAI|| 2022-08 | 18.3k |



## 功能 （What Can Stable Diffusion Do?）
1. Generate images from text
2. Generate an image from another image
3. Photo Editing
4. Make videos


# models
## v1 models
### Stable diffusion v1.4  
### Stable diffusion v1.5  
### F222  
F222 is trained originally for generating nudes, but people found it helpful in generating beautiful female portraits with correct body part relations. 

### Anything V3
Anything V3 is a special-purpose model trained to produce high-quality anime-style images.

### Open Journey
Open Journey is a model fine-tuned with images generated by Mid Journey v4. It has a different aesthetic and is a good general-purpose model.

### Best models
#### DreamShaper  
Dreamshaper model is fine-tuned for a portrait illustration style that sits between photorealistic and computer graphics. It’s easy to use and you will like it if you like this style.


#### Deliberate v2  
Deliberate v2 is another must-have model (so many!) that renders realistic illustrations.

#### Realistic Vision v2  
Realistic Vision v2 is for generating anything realistic. 

#### ChilloutMix  
ChilloutMix is a special model for generating photo-quality Asian females. 

#### Protogen v2.2 (Anime)  
Protogen v2.2 is classy. It generates illustration and anime-style images with good taste.


#### GhostMix  
GhostMix is trained with Ghost in the Shell style, a classic anime in the 90s. 
#### Waifu-diffusion  
Waifu Diffusion is a Japanese anime style.


#### Inkpunk Diffusion  
Inkpunk Diffusion is a Dreambooth-trained model with a very distinct illustration style.


## v2 models
The main change in v2 models are  
In addition to 512×512 pixels, a higher resolution version 768×768 pixels is available.  
You can no longer generate explicit content because pornographic materials were removed from training.  



## SDXL model
SDXL model is an upgrade to the celebrated v1.5 model and the forgotten v2 models. 


## Model variants
### Pruned, full, EMA-only models  
**Pruned**: if you simply want to use it to generate images.
**EMA-only**: if you simply want to use it to generate images.   
**full**: if you want to fine-tune the model with additional training. 

### fp16/fp32 models  
FP stands for floating point.   
FP16 takes 16 bits per number and is called half precision. FP32 takes 32 bits and is called full precision.

### Safetensor models  
The original pytorch model format is **.pt**. The downside of this format is that it is not secure.  
**Safetensor** is an improved version of the PT model format. It does the same thing of storing the weights, but it will not execute any codes.

## Other model types
**Checkpoint models**: These are the real Stable Diffusion models. They contain all you need to generate an image. No additional files are required. They are large, typically 2 – 7 GB. They are the subject of this article.  
**Textual inversions**: Also called embeddings. They are small files defining new keywords to generate new objects or styles. They are small, typically 10 – 100 KB. You must use them with a checkpoint model.  
**LoRA models**: They are small patch files to checkpoint models for modifying styles. They are typically 10-200 MB. You must use them with a checkpoint model.  
**Hypernetworks**: They are additional network modules added to checkpoint models. They are typically 5 – 300 MB. You must use them with a checkpoint model.


## VAE
那些比较流行预训练的模型一般都是内置了训练好的VAE模型的，不用我们再额外挂载也能做正常的推理生成(挂载后生成图像的效果会有一点点细微的区别),此时VAE pt文件的作用就像HDR ,增加一点点图片色彩空间之类的一些自定义模型

可如果一些预训练模型文件不内置VAE(或训练他们自己的VAE，此时通常会在他们的模型发布说明中告诉你从哪得到他们的VAE)。我们就必须给它找一个VAE挂载上去,用来将推理时反向扩散最后生成的 denoised latents 转换回图像格式,否则webui里最后生成输出给我们的就是类似彩噪的潜在表征(latents),此时VAE pt文件的作用就像解压软件 ,为我们解压出肉眼友好可接受的图像.

### 微调
训练Stable Diffusion模型的方法主要有四种，它们分别是：Dreambooth、Textual Inversion、LoRA和Hypernetworks。


## 其他扩散模型
Kandinsky, DeepFloyd IF 
DeepFloyd IF这个扩散模型在图像中精确生成文字方面有着重要地位。


## 参考
[stable-diffusion-art](https://stable-diffusion-art.com/)  






